Add Development section user guide (#16)
autonity/docs.autonity.org: content/docs/developer/custom-networks/_index.md

weight: 200
description: >
  Custom Autonity networks
draft: false
---

To connect your node to a custom Autonity network, you will need the network's:
  - bootnodes, typically given in a  `static-nodes.json` file or specified when running the node with the `--bootnodes` command-line option.
  - genesis configuration file,  `genesis.json`.

  See [Local Autonity Network configuration](/reference/genesis/#local-autonity-network-configuration) in the [Genesis](/reference/genesis/) reference for how to create these files.

> {{% alert title="Note" %}}Note that the client provides command-line flag options for connecting to the various Autonity testnets: `--bakerloo` and `--piccadilly`. If you specify the testnet flag, then neither genesis nor bootnode files are required: the client will use the flag to set genesis and bootstrap configuration. {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: So if you use one of the flags, `static-nodes.json` and `genesis.json` _aren't required_. That's ambiguous. Are they ignored, or if they're present, do they override the flags?

Author: If both genesis & static-nodes **and** a testnet flag is specified in the run command, a genesis block is created for the custom network, the node tries to connect to the testnet, an an error is thrown as the custom network's genesis block conflicts with the testnet genesis block. This happens if re-starting the local devnet or starting it for the first time. 

For example, if running a local dev testnet on localhost the `--piccadilly` flag is added so:

```console
ubuntu@vps-c7c3e8c7:~/TEST/develop$ ./autonity/build/bin/autonity --datadir ./autonity-chaindata  --genesis ./genesis.json  --http  --http.api aut,eth,net,tendermint,txpool,web3,admin  --ws  --ws.api aut,eth,net,personal,tendermint,txpool,web3,admin  --networkid 65110000 --nat extip:51.89.151.55 --metrics --pprof --http.port 8545 --ws.port 8546 --port 30303 --syncmode full --piccadilly ;
```

```console
Fatal: Failed to register the Autonity service: database contains incompatible genesis (have 2e5217f210d42c3ed2117a56be361c8cdb80a9dc4a99902330c716f058979043, new 712c50241a528508c86490fd883d75bcc3166a98147bfe13b51db0be8c5e5db6)
```

Where `new` is the `hash` of the Piccadilly genesis block minus the `0x` prefix:

>"hash": "0x712c50241a528508c86490fd883d75bcc3166a98147bfe13b51db0be8c5e5db6", 

```
ubuntu@vps-c7c3e8c7:~/TEST/autcli$ aut block get 0
{"baseFeePerGas": 1000000000, "committedSeals": [], "committee": [{"address": "0x31870f96212787d181b3b2771f58af2bed0019aa", "votingPower": "0x21e19e0c9bab2400000"}, {"address": "0x32f3493ef14c28419a98ff20de8a033cf9e6ab97", "votingPower": "0x21e19e0c9bab2400000"}, {"address": "0x36288c1f8c990fd66a1c5040a61d6f3ecf3a49c1", "votingPower": "0x21e19e0c9bab2400000"}, {"address": "0x6ebb5a45728be7cd9fe9c007add1e8b3daff6b3b", "votingPower": "0x21e19e0c9bab2400000"}, {"address": "0xac245af88265e72881cd9d21efb9ddc32e174b69", "votingPower": "0x21e19e0c9bab2400000"}, {"address": "0xb3a3808c698d82790ac52a42c05e4bcb3dfcd3db", "votingPower": "0x21e19e0c9bab2400000"}], "difficulty": 0, "extraData": "0x", "gasLimit": 30000000, "gasUsed": 0, "hash": "0x712c50241a528508c86490fd883d75bcc3166a98147bfe13b51db0be8c5e5db6", "logsBloom": "0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000", "miner": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000", "mixHash": "0x63746963616c2062797a616e74696e65206661756c7420746f6c6572616e6365", "nonce": "0x0000000000000000", "number": 0, "parentHash": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000", "proposerSeal": "0x", "receiptsRoot": "0x56e81f171bcc55a6ff8345e692c0f86e5b48e01b996cadc001622fb5e363b421", "round": "0x0", "sha3Uncles": "0x1dcc4de8dec75d7aab85b567b6ccd41ad312451b948a7413f0a142fd40d49347", "size": 716, "stateRoot": "0x5cf9b155aff6d7a36cb648850831781997713195867fbb8a846d849ec447493b", "timestamp": 0, "totalDifficulty": 0, "transactions": [], "transactionsRoot": "0x56e81f171bcc55a6ff8345e692c0f86e5b48e01b996cadc001622fb5e363b421", "uncles": []}
```

Author: So, to remove the ambiguity, the note needs rewording, e.g.:

From:

>Note that the client provides command-line flag options for connecting to the various Autonity testnets: `--bakerloo` and `--piccadilly`. If you specify the testnet flag, then neither genesis nor bootnode files are required: the client will use the flag to set genesis and bootstrap configuration.

To:

>Note that the client provides command-line flag options for connecting to public Autonity testnets: `--bakerloo` and `--piccadilly`. The node will not run if you specify both genesis and bootnodes for a custom network **and** a testnet flag. The client will create a genesis block for the custom network's genesis configuration and the node's local store will then have an incompatible genesis with the testnet.

Author: Edit in commit b8be2c5c26eff531b83fb3ec8ecb53fc6c15c155

Someone specifying both is a hedge scenario, but  it's probably worth keeping  the note if it does happen.

1. Install Autonity in a working directory and create an `autonity-chaindata` sub-directory as described in [Running a node, Install Autonity](/node-operators/install-aut/).

2. Create and copy the bootnode file into the `autonity-chaindata` sub directory:

	```bash
	cp ./<PATH>/static-nodes.json ./autonity-chaindata/
    ```

3. Create and copy the genesis file into the working directory:

	```bash
	cp ./<PATH>/genesis.json ./
    ```

> 4. Run the node as described in [Running a node, Run Autonity](/node-operators/run-aut/). Start Autonity, specifying command-line options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Run the node as described in [Running a node, Run Autonity](/node-operators/run-aut/), replacing the network specifier flag (e.g. `--piccadilly`) with the options:
```

	- `--genesis`: to provide the genesis file.
	- `--networkid`: to provide the network identifier. This is typically the same value as the `chainId` file in the genesis configuration file, but may be different.

	An example run command for a local development network on localhost could be:
	

> 	```bash

Reviewer 3: indentation

	autonity \
	    --datadir ./autonity-chaindata  \

> 	    --piccadilly  \

Reviewer 2: Don't we need to remove this?
